02-10-2023:
" Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic. "

Artistic Vision
Interactive computational guidance for developing expertise.

given expertise in domain as trying to learn the task

Tools: Tools for developing domain expertise.

Leverages that experts have trained eyes to see things in certain ways.
-example: detecting abnormality on xray.
chess master looking at board.

following steps of trained expert meant faster grasp of the thing. MAkes sense to me.

How design systems for this?
Ai taking good first steps.
Midjourney AI.

spectrum of expertise:
-performing as an expert-------becoming an expert----
-line? person as dynamic part of hte equation.

augenting human intellect
"How might we help novices see in the way that experts do?"
-what do novices need to gain this expertise? and then can they develop their own? - the point of this talk.

How might we help develop novices develop their own. o

Is done with expert feedback in instituion learning situations.
Contextual feedback and regular diaglogue.

Embedding expert vision for photography.
-"How would you describe the composition?"
-would be a range. ie rule of thirds. but complex grid would work better.
-Annotations make abstract ideas more concrete.

do computation tools have the ability to close the feedback loop?
to help people make decisions and assess their designs?

mynote: Why not study basic art to help develop this? Are we just talking about
tools needed/or that could be helpful?

composition computational tool.
-portrait lighting styles
-decluttering
-design feedback
-color filters
-data storytelling ? explains data and visualizations

Process desribed in more detail: using decluttering, portrait comp,

-Supporting awaereness through visual annotations
-proving contecutal exemplrs as inspiration
-encouraging reflection through principled feedback

Decluttering: Focusing on what draws the viewers attention.
-reframing

How to support?
How is it recognized?
lense of contrast used by professionals.
subject-background separation, image border flicker.

seeing contrast : squint at the image. Look using greyscale. Draw lines of contrast.

hypothesize that abstraction of image may help these things

"wizard of oz prototype"

-----this talk is about training the eye to see art concepts and what tools
can be used to help develope this "vision"

detects edges. contrast and highlight the white

Saliency maps
-classify and color-code edges.


describing participants thoughts on the photographs.
app is highlighting edges.
-person observed that no clear subject.
-versus no clear subject being wanted.

expert vision
-contrasted-based edge highlights - consider decluttering in terms on contrast.
specific foseud on border

Domains of Lighting: -environment lighting is important.
common mistakes:
inappropriate use of flash
back-lit photo where face is completely in shadow
oddly shaped objects cast across face.

vs :Professional lighting guide styles to choose from.

How can novices be suported in developing artistic vision?
Look: (name is look) lkighting style, strong light on left, triangle on right cheek

natural environments provide less control.

First must capture environmnet map
HDR image.

my thought:
I think a baseline learning of 3d modeling would give good lessons on these topics.
ie blender starter stuff.
I think that if you want to develop artistic vision, you need to understand
waht things to look for/at - i don't think there are that many. Just learn them?

using HDR imagine and modeling to see how we can determine what style is wanted.
f(x) quality metric to examine lihgting style.

question: Did you render each of the angles to see what best lined up with what
you wanted?

think it would have been better to have a self-captured HDR vs one that was similar.

notice that focus is on awareness of principles and idea the system should
have minimal option.

wanted to ask: What are the behaviors that we should be aware of when providing
computational creative feedback?
-is the creative frequency and timing on this feedback good/bad/too much?


Principles: Originla design:
Potential issues found, general considerations to think about.

"Can we help novices think in terms of these decisions and can this help"


specific, justified, actionable
wizard of oz design feedback.

really seems to me that these "apps" are only pointing out very obvious things?
Like margins, contrast - mostly margins between contrasting areas.
-talking about design choices.

---
When you complete this assignment, please write a summary of at least 50 words
of the event and how you spent the 2 hours.
After you have attended the 2 events, write a summary of what you did and
what you learned from the events.
---

I attended the talk " " by AUTHOR. This talk took place DATE at TIME in the
Computer Sciences building. This talk explored different ways that novices
could be guided to make better design choices using different technological
tools or apps. The major topics explored were decluttering, professional
lighting in photographs, and design principles in data storytelling
(like flyers or similar media). The tools used methods such as contrast increase
to better explain contrast areas or highlight lines that can be distracting (for
decluttering), photographic lighitng using a function to assess the light
map and see if it lines up with whatever photographic style the user was trying
for, and contrast and margin detection to assess design of flyers or such.

I attended the hour-long event and took notes during, which I used to write
this small summary.

I think that the talk was interesting in terms of beginning to look at
different technologies to achieve the goal of "faster learning," however, I was
unsure if the point of the technology was more to just get faster results or if
the point was that novices would learn the design principles behind the
way the technologies were implemented. I think the talk focused more on an
overall view
---
Risks of overreliance? And gamify to win and no issues.


Approach to capture expert knowledge to train novices.
Distilling knowledge.
-capturing and distilling

generative AI - used for generating near end, but noted that lofi prototypes
work great for support in learning process. (scaffolding)



Was it a real time comparison to the renders of the HDRIs to see what was the best match
to the desired look or

when you did the lighitng one with the HDRIs, did you render each frame for each
angle and then decide what one matched the closest to the "ideal look or style"

Did you have to gather a ton of renders to be able to assess this for the first place?
for each different "Style or look?"

Was it using a similar HDRI? How was the lighitng similarity assessed?

Ddi you give very basic design guidelines for these or are these from people
with no "artistic training"

these are tools not replacements.
